Add maint job for distributed analyze (#737)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/how-to-guides/multinode-timescaledb/multinode-maintenance.md

# Multi-node maintenance tasks

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

Various maintenance activities need to be carried out for effective
upkeep of the distributed multi-node setup. You can use `cron` or
another scheduling system outside the database to run these below
maintenance jobs on a regular schedule if you prefer. Also make sure
that the jobs are scheduled separately for each database that contains
distributed hypertables.

## Maintaining distributed transactions

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

# Multi-node maintenance tasks

## Maintaining distributed transactions

> A distributed transaction runs across multiple data nodes, and can remain in a

Reviewer: Can we move this para up to L2, so that we don't have a naked heading?

Author: Ok, added a para for the original heading.

SELECT add_job('data_node_maintenance', '5m');
```

> ## Maintaining statistics for distributed hypertables

Reviewer: We should try and only use gerund headings for Procedures. I think in this case we can ditch the verb altogether, since it's a concept:

```suggestion
## Statistics for distributed hypertables
```

Author: Done

> Table statistics need to be up-to-date to allow for efficient planning
> of queries on distributed hypertables. Unfortunately, due to their
> distributed nature, auto-vacuum is not useful to gather the statistics.
> So you need to explicitly ANALYZE your distributed hypertables
> periodically via a maintenance job as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On distributed hypertables, the ttable statistics need to be kept updated.
This allows you to efficiently plan your queries. Because of the nature of 
distributed hypertables, you can't use the `auto-vacuum` tool to gather
statistics. Instead, you can explicitly ANALYZE the distributed hypertable
periodically using a maintenance job, like this:
```

Author: Reworded

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE distributed_hypertables_analyze(job_id int, config jsonb)
LANGUAGE plpgsql AS
$$
DECLARE r record;
BEGIN
FOR r IN SELECT hypertable_schema, hypertable_name
              FROM timescaledb_information.hypertables
              WHERE is_distributed ORDER BY 1, 2
LOOP
EXECUTE format('ANALYZE %I.%I', r.hypertable_schema, r.hypertable_name);
END LOOP;
END
$$;

SELECT add_job('distributed_hypertables_analyze', '12h');
```

> Note that both the above jobs can be merged into a single maintenance
> job if needed. However analyzing of distributed hypertables should
> be done at a much lesser frequency as compared to remote transaction
> healing activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can merge the jobs in this example into a single maintenance
job if you prefer. However, analyzing distributed hypertables should
be done less frequently than remote transaction healing activity.
```

This feels like it's missing some further explanation.

Author: Reworded and added one more line of explanation.

SELECT add_job('data_node_maintenance', '5m');
```

## Maintaining statistics for distributed hypertables

Table statistics need to be up-to-date to allow for efficient planning
of queries on distributed hypertables. Unfortunately, due to their
distributed nature, auto-vacuum is not useful to gather the statistics.
So you need to explicitly ANALYZE your distributed hypertables
periodically via a maintenance job as shown below.

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE distributed_hypertables_analyze(job_id int, config jsonb)
LANGUAGE plpgsql AS
$$
DECLARE r record;
BEGIN
FOR r IN SELECT hypertable_schema, hypertable_name
              FROM timescaledb_information.hypertables
              WHERE is_distributed ORDER BY 1, 2
LOOP

> EXECUTE 'ANALYZE ' || quote_ident(r.hypertable_schema)
>                 || '.' || quote_ident(r.hypertable_name);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EXECUTE format('ANALYZE %I.%I', r.hypertable_schema, r.hypertable_name);
```

Author: Ok, done.

SELECT add_job('data_node_maintenance', '5m');
```

## Statistics for distributed hypertables

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.
